>[!success] Good ebikes are > 3000 euro

There are tone of ebikes that have lower price tags even around 500 euro. But the issue is that all of them are using Chinese component which obviously makes them faulty, high maintenance, and annoying.

Although, some companies have changed the game a bit and are using high quality components such as Shimano, Schwalbe, and other European or east Asian battle tested brands to improve the quality of the product but yet are not good enough. Why? Because the most important part of and ebike which is the motor, is still Chinese (such as BAFANG, and Mivice).

>[!warning] If no mention of motor brand, mostly likely Chinese
>Because they know the brand represent the bad quality (imagine in Germany, someone buys a Chinese car. XD), hence do not mention it explicitly in overview pages of their website, and you have to dig so much. Examples include Mougg, Veloretti, etc. that use Mivice, mean while Reise & Muller (a legendary bike company) uses Bosch and Mahle (Both well known German engines).
>>[!info] Maybe about everything, if no mention of brand, probably Chinese 
>>We saw the example looking for good tires where good ones mentioned it and those who didn't mention the tire, were all CST tires which are low quality.
>
>One big example of importance of having a good motor and in a more general form, the electronics is that for an ebike, having smooth pedaling is very important. A weak system will have delays, lag behind or do things undesired and not do things expected. Hence, ruins the entire point of having an ebike. So, the whole point of spending these amount of money (you can get an awesome normal bike for 800 euro) is to access to a smooth and enjoyable ride via our bike which makes the cutting of costs by choosing a worse motor, is a horrible idea.

>[!note] Obviously marketing, WCYD
>Well, we learned from marketing that if you are bad at something, don't even mention it. Well, not for me. Omegaez clap.

>[!warning] Only torque sensor
Another important note is that because of the smoothness we want (as explained in the above warning section about motor selection), it is very important to select a bike that has torque sensor for pedal assistance not a speed sensor. Speed sensor is naturally is delayed because cannot figure out how much force is put to the pedal and only checks the speed of movement.

Component brands that are within the budget and high quality:
- Motor: Bosch, Mahle, Yamaha
- Brakes: Shimano (hydraulic), Magura
- Belt (if not chain): Gates (Carbon drive)
- Saddle: Brooks, Selle Royal
- Tire: Continental, Schwalbe, WTB
- Transmission (shifter): Enviolo (auto)

Below are optional parts:
- Display: Bosch (Purion)
- Suspension: SunTour
- Rims: Mach1
- Grip: Herrmans
- Lighting: LightSKIN, Hermans, Büchel
- Handle bar and seat post: Satori, LightSKIN
- Mudguard: Curana
- Bell: Knog
- Lock: Trelock

>[!summary]
>Based on all these, the following products are recommended:
>- Reise & Muller Roadster4 Mixte ([page](https://www.r-m.de/en-us/bikes/roadster-models/))
>- Schindelhauer Arthur ([page](https://www.schindelhauerbikes.com/en/Bikes/Outlet/Arthur-Outlet.html))
