## [How to find red flags in the interview for machine learning engineer (or data science) role?](https://www.reddit.com/r/datascience/comments/1455mm2/how_to_find_red_flags_in_the_interview_for/)

> When I have the interview, I always try to ask:
> - How many senior MLE/DS do you have?
> - Which business problems do you want to solve?
> - How many models do you currently have in production?
> - What's the level of MLOps your company is at today?

---
>What kind of data do you have? What kind of problems have you solved in the past 1 year using data science? How do you structure the projects and how do you manage it? How many data engineers are there? Who manages reporting and dashboarding? Who manages model deployment and monitoring? Who defines what work data science team needs to pick?
>
> Apart from these you can check the linkedin profile of your hiring manager, director and some data scientists in the company. Check their past experiences. If most of them have recently moved to data science from other fields, it will be a mess. Avoid it.
>
> Also if they use AI, ML, Data Science words randomly in the whole discussion, like they say we want to integrate ai in our products and blaah blaah, run. People who say ai ml ds in the same breath typically have no idea about it. In the interview you will also be able to judge who runs the team, whether technical leader or product manager. If it appears that the product manager has more say, you can run, those noobs fresh out of MBA college without any real experience have no understanding of the field.

---
>What technology stack do you work with?

>Nothing worse than hearing “We’re technology agnostic” when there’s less than 10 people on your team. Integration, merging and collaboration now becomes a nightmare affair when everyone is use different languages and frameworks for everything. The best answer you can get is “We use x, y and z but we’re open to exploring other technologies if there’s a use case for it”

---
>Giving you an technical exercise to complete, but not giving you data to work with, instead asking you to 'generate your own data, based on what data you think we have'.
>
>Seriously, this happened to me a few weeks ago, I accepted the job, and it turns out they have no data ... like ... at all.

---
>Adapt the Joel test:
>
>1. Do you use source control?
2. Can you make a build in one step?
3. Do you make daily builds?
4. Do you have a bug database?
5. Do you fix bugs before writing new code?
6. Do you have an up-to-date schedule?
7. Do you have a spec?
8. Do programmers have quiet working conditions?
9. Do you use the best tools money can buy?
10. Do you have testers?
11. Do new candidates write code during their interview?
12. Do you do hallway usability testing?
>
It’s not the be all, end all, but it’ll get you close. It focuses less on tech specifics, more on best practices and acknowledgment from the hiring company that your area is valued enough to not submit it to budgetary atrophy.

---
>- Release cycle and workflow
>
Ask about the process of releasing code start general and go specific. Have them describe the release process. Confirm they have a code review process, reasonable test coverage, and some kind of CI pipeline. Then ask how long does code take to get reviewed, how many devs are involved in a release, what is the discussion like? Can they confidently hotfix or does that make them nervous? Who is held resonsible for bugs and what is the post mordem process? Try to figure out if they have a finger pointy culture.
>
>- Meetings / standups  
>
>How many reoccurring meetings are there currently? Can you turn them down? For an individual evaluated on how well they are developing a codebase, any more than two to three hours of reoccurring meetings per week is a red flag. Make sure they are not going to waste your time in meetings then complain that nothing ever gets done.
>
>- Models
>
How are deployed models monitored and evaluated? How well organized is all this info? Are there automated alerts when the model starts spitting out garbage / (hallucinating)? How fast can you identify a failing model? How quickly can you roll back a bad model? How long are models deployed? What is the training process? What is the action standard for replacing a model?
>
>- Structured time
>    
How are tasks dispached? What kind of freedom do the devs have to make decisions about how their time is spent? If I think a three day refactor is important, I like to be able to just do it and not have to ask permission. Some people want structure, too much or too little can be a red flag.
>
>- Tech debt  
>
>How does the team prioritize and think about tech debt? How many 800 line nested for loops are there? You could ask for specific versions of software Python 2.x? python 3.10? R3.6? R4.0? Then ask about versions of the packages they are using Pandas 1.x? If they don't know of hand (red flag?) ask them to look it up. If you are feeling froggy, you could ask if they afraid to update?
>
>- What are the skillsets of upper management  
>
How well versed are key decision makers at the company in tech? You want to directly report to someone that knows how to code. Ideally for me, thats a founder / CEO that is checking in code weekly. Avoid working for anyone that does not understand the pit falls of devloping software. You don't want to have to answer "why can't you just..." to someone thats never written code professionally. Also is the position a critical role or a nice to have and the first thing cut when this AI hype cycle is over.

---
>1. The person who is hiring you, if he is a non tech guy( MBA or holder of some data science certificate) that itself is a red flag. An MBA will have zero knowledge on engineering or mlops. So please stay away from such disasters in your career.
>
>2. Ask them about your colleagues, if he is not revealing the name of future co-worker, please stay away from such monsters.
>    
>3. If your interview process is very easy, then please stay away from such upcoming tornado of your life and then thank me later.
>    
>4. If in your JD, if they are not explicitly mentioning the required skills then also stay away because if the JD is not explicitly mentioning the skills sets then that means they can put you anywhere later when you will join the organization.

---
