Days after a quarterfinals loss in the 2010 French Open, Novak Djokovic told his coach, Marián Vajda, that he had decided to quit playing tennis. He was No. 3 in the world, a grand slam winner, and a favorite to win Wimbledon.

After Djokovic said he was quitting, Vajda asked, 
> “Why did you start playing this sport?”

**Djokovic was focusing too much on rankings, records, titles, and external expectations**. As a result, Djokovic said, 
>“I was mentally at one very messed up place.”

As Djokovic thought about Vajda’s question, he thought about **how many of his earliest childhood memories include his “most beloved toy”**—a mini tennis racket and a soft foam ball.
He started playing tennis, answering Vajda’s question,
> “because **I just really loved** holding that racket in my hand.”

> “Do you still love holding a racket in your hand?” Vajda asked.

Djokovic thought about it for a few seconds, got excited, and said:
>“I do. I still love holding a racket in my hand. Whether it’s a grand slam final on center court or just playing around on a public court, **I like playing for the sake of playing**.”

Vajda nodded, “Well that’s your source. That's what you need to tap into. Put aside rankings and what you want to achieve and what you think others are expecting of you.”

The following season, Djokovic enjoyed one of the greatest seasons in sports history. He won 43 straight matches. He won three Grand Slams, including his first Wimbledon title. And he finished the year as the number one player in the world.

>[!SUCCESS] I started to play freely,
>**“I started to play freely,”** he says of that season. **“I became the kid that I was when I started playing.”**

Since you control the effort more than the outcome, “Ultimately, you have to love doing it,”. “You have to get to a place where doing the work is the win and everything else is extra.”

>“I see people with talent, with all those things, but the one thing they don't have is just that love for doing it for the sake of it.” — Rodney Mullen


