The #story of an awesome random and cool passenger next to me that told me the biggest secrets to success in his own views.

---

## Episode 0: The events leading to this story
I needed to get an English language certificate as part of the process of getting my degrees (so I can apply abroad).

>[!note]
>This is the new law that any students, even if the host institute approves the language status, needs to provide an language certificate.

The issue was that I didn't have such a certificate and given that I have to do compulsory military service until 20 October 2023 (less than 2 month!), I was in a hurry to get the certificate ASAP. Hence, I signed up for the earliest available spot which was on 18th August 2023.

When I tried to sign up, there were many complications which I ignore to explain, but the most relevant (not necessarily important) was that the capacity in Tehran (closest to my hometown) was filled and I had to choose another option. Given that I was familiar with Rasht, I signed up for that location. Also, I bought only the tickets for going there (no return ticket).

>[!note]
>I studied my bachelor's at University of Guilan in Rasht, so I was fully familiar with the whole place, how to get there, even how and where chairs are located. So, it made it easier since there was lower amount of unexpected.

>[!info] Fun fact
>Lahijan a city next to Rasht in fact represents me culturally and ethnically. (Maybe) my ethnicity can be considered [Caspi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caspians) (yea; the Caspian Sea)

So, a day before the exam, I traveled to Lahijan. However, I got really sick and barely could even talk or even hear. Hence, it made it way harder for me to do the exam in my full potential. Nonetheless I did it and when I went back to Lahijan to have some rest. Now, I am so tired and let's not forget that I didn't get a return ticket. One thing let to another and I ignored getting a ticket and just stayed another night. 
So, late at night (just a reminder, the same night as I took the exam), I decided to get the ticket online. No bus ticket was available although I knew I can get one if I go in person. Nonetheless, ==suddenly something sparked in my brain== that ==I need to *expose* myself to more important people==.

>[!note]
>Let's not get into the morality of "more important people". Here, I mean explicitly people who can solve more complicated problems (despite the motivation or goodness).

>[!info]
>Statistically speaking, people who spend 3 times more on the same ticket which might only be about 30 mins faster (for a 5 hour trip), can be considered more important (unless they are free loaders which in my country, almost all of them have cars of their own).

So based on these, I thought to myself, this ticket going to be a journey itself and ==I am going to watch (and study) what (important) people do.==

Making it short, it was SUCCESSFUL! Both other passengers (3 passengers total including me) were founders, rich, and investors on business trip.

---
## Episode 1: The power of small talk!

>[!note]
>The title here is stolen from the "School of Life" channel on YouTube. I highly recommend to watch the video about this.

It is 10:00 on 19th August.

So at the start, for two hours, both of our (important) people were talking about an issue recently happened to one of them which cost our cool guy (the character of this writing) about *3 billion IRR*. About 1.5hours to my destination, I got about 2 min alone time with our cool guy (he looked cool too!). Here, the story begins.

Firstly, I was scared to ask or talk, since I didn't know what to say. But I asked something that could give some personal info. I asked:
> So far, I can figure out that you can really afford a car. Why have you taken a taxi?

> Actually, I am going to buy one tomorrow. However, I enjoy short alone trips to read books or just enjoy the moment. Although, I sold my last car to invest but I am gonna bye a new one soon. 
> -- He replied!

Then we got into talking, he said things about his type of work and how he lives to further explain himself.

---
## Episode 2: The gist of success

>[!info]
>Given that there was lots of things, I am going to just summarize to key points he mentioned which I truly felt the same say before or gave me a new perspective.

- filter your sensors; think positively
- thoughts, sensors -> getting used to sth -> happens
- 5 people around you define you
- spend 5% of your monthly income purely on what you enjoy
- read economics books; becoming rich has a formula so follow it
- accept who you are; accept your situation; stop shaming yourself for your past
- you don't have to do what you love, you must love what you do (is is only and only possible after you accept yourself). The story of "علی واکسیما"
- figure out yourself: 1. spend a week, fully immersing in yourself that what you want (accept yourself first) 2. research which one of those desires is feasible and choose one 3. when you know which one you want, now go find the expert and talk to them and ask for guidance. 4. dedicate your full potential into it! [[2023-08-13|Paul Graham's tweet about "how to be best at X"]].
- All of them above are terrifying, but when you surrender and accept yourself, and think deeply about what you want, then just do it! don't overthink. take action, and get it done. it is the idea of "employee" way of thinking that blocks your thoughts! its the illusion of safety which employees claim. if you destroy this illusion, then you know there is no safety, there is nothing to be scared of, you are not longer passive and afraid of. [[2023-08-09|Davic Perell's tweet about "surrendering"]].
- 
