# What focus means
*by Billy Oppenheimer*

Shortly after Steve Jobs returned as the CEO of Apple in 1997, he met with Jony Ive, Apple’s Senior VP of industrial design. Apple had 40 products on the market.

> “Jony, how many things have you said no to?” Jobs asked. “There are measures of focus, and one of them is how often you say no.”


> [!success] What focus means
> “What focus means,” Jobs taught Ive, “is saying no to something that you—with every bone in your body—think is a phenomenal idea, and you wake up thinking about it, but you say no to it because you're focusing on something else.” 

Jobs walked up to a whiteboard and drew a 2 x 2 grid. On top, he wrote “Consumer” and “Professional.” Down the side, “Portable” and “Desktop.” Four products—meet Apple’s new radically focused product line, Jobs said. After that meeting, over the next two decades, Jobs and Ive—**focused on making a few high-quality products while saying no to everything else**—transformed a dying, near-bankrupt company into one of the most valuable companies in the world, worth over $2.9 trillion. 

>[!note] Takeaway 1
>The philosopher Marcus Aurelius pointed out that the focus of doing less “brings a double satisfaction.” 
>1. You get the satisfaction of having fewer things to do. 
>2. you get the satisfaction of doing those fewer things at a higher level. 
>
> > [!success] 
> > You get “to do less, better.”
> > 

> [!info] Takeaway 2
> Even though he slashed the product line down to four products, Jobs loved to have and hear ideas. It made me think of what Jerry Seinfeld identifies as the ultimate skill of the artist: “taste and discernment.”
> > [!info] taste and discernment
> > “It’s one thing to create, It’s one thing to have ideas.” Seinfeld says. “The other is you have to choose. ‘**What are we going to do, and what are we not going to do?**’” “This is a gigantic aspect of \[artistic] survival,” Seinfeld continues. “It’s kind of unseen—what’s picked and what is discarded—but mastering that is how you stay alive.” 
> 
> > [!success] focus and simplicity
> > “Everything just got simpler. That’s been one of my mantras—focus and simplicity.” — Steve Jobs

Ref: [Billy Oppenheimer on Twitter: "Shortly after Steve Jobs returned as the CEO of Apple in 1997, he met with Jony Ive, Apple’s Senior VP of industrial design. Apple had 40 products on the market. “Jony, how many things have you said no to?” Jobs asked. Ive was confused. “You have to understand,” Jobs said,… https://t.co/cyD5ZiAnNM" / Twitter](https://twitter.com/bpoppenheimer/status/1672984810996875267)

# Parkinson's Law
Parkinson's Law is the idea that the work will generally expand to the amount of time, budget, and number of people allocated to it, and no matter how many people you allocate to it, those people will feel busy. They'll feel busy because, due to the excess time/slack in the system, they'll start focusing on less and less important tasks.

## Manifestation on an individual level
Let's say you have a report due in a week. The report might only take you around five hours to finish if you really focus and work efficiently. 
>[!info] 
>However, because you know you have a week to complete it, you might find yourself spending a lot more time on it than you need to.

You'll be more prone to distractions, take longer breaks, or perhaps decide to add more details, tables, graphs, and so forth. 

>[!info] Essentially, the task becomes more complex and time-consuming purely because you have more time in which to do it.

## Manifestation across organizations
Imagine a big company with many departments. Now, suppose each department is given a budget and a set amount of time to complete its tasks for the year. 
>[!info]
>According to Parkinson's Law, each department will use its entire budget and the entire allotted time, even if the tasks could have been completed more efficiently.

This is because as resources and time increase, departments tend to become more complex and less efficient.

>[!example]
>  For example, a department might add more steps to its procedures, requiring more approvals and creating more paperwork, which slows down the process.

>[!success]
>The larger the team, the larger the budget, the longer the timeline, the less gets accomplished.

Ref: [Andrew Wilkinson on Twitter: "Elon Musk fired 6,500 employees at Twitter. A little birdie told me it's down to: - 2 designers - 6 iOS developers - 20 web developers - Around 1,400 sales and operations people How is it possible that we are still using this website? Two words: Parkinson's Law. Have you…" / Twitter](https://twitter.com/awilkinson/status/1673099604345389056)
